---
slug: /blog/data-processing-repl
collection: blog
tags: data-processing
date: 2022-02-09
---

::partial[nav]

::partial[bio]

# Make a quick REPL in Bash

This is part of the Data Processing series.

::collection[blog#data-processing]

While you're on your computer, you may find yourself needing to perform the same task for many things. For example, let's say you're interested in customizing your computer and you find a few websites online with cool backgrounds that you want to download and use as your background. However, the aspect ratios aren't consistent, so whenever you download a new background, you resize it to your monitor's aspect ratio. Let's say you have a bash command that you run to download an image, another to resize, and another to place the result in your backgrounds folder. Something like this:

```sh
background_folder="~/backgrounds"
url="https://the.web.site/image.jpg"
filename="$(mktemp)"
processed_filename="processed_$filename"

# download the image
wget "$url" -O- > "$filename"

# resize the image (or do other processing)
# todo: figure out actual command
convert "$filename" "$processed_filename"

# place the resulting file into your backgrounds folder
mv "$processed_filename" "$background_folder"
```

Re-executing each of these commands individually for each image can be cumbersome, so you might wrap them into a function that will call all of them for you:

```sh
background_folder="~/backgrounds"

function download_bg {
  url="$1"
  filename="$(mktemp)"
  processed_filename="processed_$filename"
  
  wget "$url" -O- > "$filename"
  convert "$filename" "$processed_filename"
  mv "$processed_filename" "$background_folder"
}

# usage:
download_bg https://the.web.site/image.jpg
```

Now whenever you find a cool background, you call the `download_bg` function to download, process it, and place it in your backgrounds folder.

Yet in practice, you'll need to keep retyping `download_bg` for each image or you need to delete the argument you pass to it whenever you want to download another one. To ease your burden, you can make a simple REPL in bash:

```sh
while [ true ]; do
  read -p "Enter the image url: " url
  download_bg "$url"
done
```

When you start this while loop, your repl will ask you for a url, process it, then ask you again, ad infinitum. Press `ctrl+c` to exit out.

And that's it. You can easily make your own repl in bash using the `while` and `read` tools. Once you receive the input, you can process the data however you like.

I hope that makes your work a bit less repetitive and more enjoyable. Of course, if you have all of the urls up front, there are some faster methods that don't require individual url input, so check out the other entries in the data-processing collection for more tips.


  
